[DOC] Add urldecode processor documentation (#5994)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ingest-pipelines/processors/urldecode.md

---
layout: default
title: URL decode
parent: Ingest processors
nav_order: 320
---

# URL decode processor

The `urldecode` processor is useful for decoding URL-encoded strings that may be present in log data or other text fields. This can make the data more readable and easier to analyze, especially when dealing with URLs or query parameters that contain special characters or spaces.

The following is the syntax for the `urldecode` processor:

```json
{
  "urldecode": {
    "field": "field_to_decode",
    "target_field": "decoded_field"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Configuration parameters

The following table lists the required and optional parameters for the `urldecode` processor.

Parameter | Required/Optional | Description |
|-----------|-----------|-----------|
`field`  | Required  | The field containing the URL-encoded string to be decoded. |

> `target_field`  | Optional  | The field where the decoded string is stored. If not specified, the decoded string is stored in the same field as the original encoded string. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`target_field`  | Optional  | The field in which the decoded string is stored. If not specified, then the decoded string is stored in the same field as the original encoded string. |
```

> `ignore_missing`  | Optional  | Specifies whether the processor should ignore documents that do not contain the specified `field`. If set to `true`, the processor ignores missing values in the `field` and leaves the `target_field` unchanged. Default is `false`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ignore_missing`  | Optional  | Specifies whether the processor should ignore documents that do not contain the specified `field`. If set to `true`, then the processor ignores missing values in the `field` and leaves the `target_field` unchanged. Default is `false`. |
```

`description`  | Optional  | A brief description of the processor.  |
`if` | Optional | A condition for running the processor. |

> `ignore_failure` | Optional | Specifies whether the processor continues execution even if it encounters an error. If set to `true`, failures are ignored. Default is `false`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ignore_failure` | Optional | Specifies whether the processor continues to run even if it encounters an error. If set to `true`, then failures are ignored. Default is `false`. |
```

  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 2 (Optional): Test the pipeline

It is recommended that you test your pipeline before you ingest documents.
{: .tip}

To test the pipeline, run the following query:

```json
POST _ingest/pipeline/urldecode_pipeline/_simulate
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "_source": {
        "encoded_url": "https://example.com/search?q=hello%20world"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

The following example response confirms that the pipeline is working as expected:

```json
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "doc": {
        "_index": "_index",
        "_id": "_id",
        "_source": {
          "decoded_url": "https://example.com/search?q=hello world",
          "encoded_url": "https://example.com/search?q=hello%20world"
        },
        "_ingest": {
          "timestamp": "2024-04-25T23:16:44.886165001Z"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Step 3: Ingest a document 

The following query ingests a document into an index named `testindex1`:

```json
PUT testindex1/_doc/1?pipeline=url_decode_pipeline
{
  "encoded_url": "https://example.com/search?q=url%20decode%20test"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

> The request indexes the document into the index `testindex1` and will index all documents with the 

Reviewer: Should we be referring to the response in this text, or should the heading be "Request"? Should this text end in a colon?

> The request indexes the document into the index `testindex1` and will index all documents with the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request indexes the document into the index `testindex1` and will index all documents containing the 
```

---
layout: default
title: URL decode
parent: Ingest processors
nav_order: 320
---

# URL decode processor

The `urldecode` processor is useful for decoding URL-encoded strings that may be present in log data or other text fields. This can make the data more readable and easier to analyze, especially when dealing with URLs or query parameters that contain special characters or spaces.

The following is the syntax for the `urldecode` processor:

```json
{
  "urldecode": {
    "field": "field_to_decode",
    "target_field": "decoded_field"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Configuration parameters

The following table lists the required and optional parameters for the `urldecode` processor.

Parameter | Required/Optional | Description |
|-----------|-----------|-----------|

> `field`  | Required  | The field containing the URL-encoded string to be decoded. Supports [template snippets]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ingest-pipelines/create-ingest/#template-snippets). |

Author: @gaobinlong Are template snippets applicable for this processor's parameters?

Reviewer 2: No, not applicable, both the `file` and `target_field` do not support template snippets.

> `target_field`  | Required  | The field where the decoded string is stored. If not specified, the decoded string is stored in the same field as the original encoded string. Supports [template snippets]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ingest-pipelines/create-ingest/#template-snippets). |

Reviewer 2: `target_field` is optional.

`ignore_missing`  | Optional  | Specifies whether the processor should ignore documents that do not contain the specified `field`. If set to `true`, the processor ignores missing values in the `field` and leaves the `target_field` unchanged. Default is `false`. |

> `override_target`  | Optional  | Determines what happens when `target_field` exists in the document. If set to `true`, the processor overwrites the existing `target_field` value with the new value. If set to `false`, the existing value remains and the processor does not overwrite it. Default is `false`. |

Reviewer 2: This processor doesn't support `override_target`.
